# Deciding to Use HTCDS

If you have decided to implement HTCDS, then this section provides guidance on how to go about implementing the standard. In general are two ways to implement the standard: The first is to directly update or create a CMS implementing the fields specified in HTCDS. The second approach is to develop a mapping which can be used in reports, referrals and other types of data sharing arrangement. A field mapping solution might consist of a technology or procedure which links the field values in your CMS with the HTCDS fields. The mapping should account for different values in picklists, any features of the CMS specific to a location, languages, etc.
	
HTCDS is not intended to prevent custom features or fields being added to your system. Rather, it is intended to offer a minimum field specification (CORE), optional enhancements (Non-CORE) and allow you to add any other enhancements you need. For example, it’s possible that an organisation will want to customise support plans with fields specific to your programs. There might be additional fields used to identify an individual (depending upon the country or region). There might be additional industries of labour exploitation which can be mapped to the existing HTCDS standard.
	
Adoption of HTCDS is a journey not a destination. Closer adoption by organisations worldwide will begin to unlock ways to more quickly and cheaply implement technology solutions, discover new insights through data and enable inter-organisational systems such as referral processes to improve outcomes for victims and survivors.
